=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Modern - Validate HTTP requests and responses against an OpenAPI v3.0, v3.1 or v3.2 document

=head1 VERSION

version 0.135

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $openapi = OpenAPI::Modern->new(
    openapi_uri => 'https://prod.example.com',  # adjust for each deployment environment
    openapi_schema => YAML::XS->new->load(<<'YAML'));
  $self: /api         # canonical_uri will become https://prod.example.com/api
  openapi: 3.2.0
  info:
    title: Test API
    version: 1.2.3
  paths:
    /foo/{foo_id}:
      servers:
        - url: https://{host}.example.com
          variables:
            host:
              default: prod
              enum: [dev, stg, prod]
      parameters:
      - name: foo_id
        in: path
        required: true
        schema:
          pattern: ^[a-z]+$
      - name: bar_id
        in: path
        required: true
        schema:
          pattern: ^\d+$
      post:
        operationId: my_foo_request
        parameters:
        - name: My-Request-Header
          in: header
          required: true
          schema:
            pattern: ^[0-9]+$
        requestBody:
          required: true
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                type: object
                properties:
                  hello:
                    type: string
                    pattern: ^[0-9]+$
        responses:
          200:
            description: success
            headers:
              My-Response-Header:
                required: true
                schema:
                  pattern: ^[0-9]+$
            content:
              application/json:
                schema:
                  type: object
                  required: [ status ]
                  properties:
                    status:
                      const: ok
  YAML

  say 'request:';
  my $request = Mojo::Message::Request->new;
  $request->url->parse("https://dev.example.com/foo/bar");
  $request->headers('My-Request-Header' => '123');
  $request->headers('Content-Type' => 'application/json');
  $request->body('{"hello": 123}');
  my $results = $openapi->validate_request($request);
  say $results;
  say ''; # newline
  say JSON::MaybeXS->new(convert_blessed => 1, canonical => 1, pretty => 1, indent_length => 2)->encode($results);

  say 'response:';
  my $response = Mojo::Message::Response->new(code => 200, message => 'OK');
  $response->headers->content_type('application/json');
  $response->headers->header('My-Response-Header', '123');
  $response->body('{"status": "ok"}');
  $results = $openapi->validate_response($response, { request => $request });
  say $results;
  say ''; # newline
  say JSON::MaybeXS->new(convert_blessed => 1, canonical => 1, pretty => 1, indent_length => 2)->encode($results);

prints:

  request:
  '/request/body/content/hello': got integer, not string
  '/request/body/content': not all properties are valid

  {
    "errors" : [
      {
        "absoluteKeywordLocation" : "https://production.example.com/api#/paths/~1foo~1%7Bfoo_id%7D~1bar~1%7Bbar_id%7D/post/requestBody/content/application~1json/schema/properties/hello/type",
        "error" : "got integer, not string",
        "instanceLocation" : "/request/body/content/hello",
        "keywordLocation" : "/paths/~1foo~1{foo_id}~1bar~1%7Bbar_id%7D/post/requestBody/content/application~1json/schema/properties/hello/type"
      },
      {
        "absoluteKeywordLocation" : "https://production.example.com/api#/paths/~1foo~1%7Bfoo_id%7D~1bar~1%7Bbar_id%7D/post/requestBody/content/application~1json/schema/properties",
        "error" : "not all properties are valid",
        "instanceLocation" : "/request/body/content",
        "keywordLocation" : "/paths/~1foo~1{foo_id}~1bar~1%7Bbar_id%7D/post/requestBody/content/application~1json/schema/properties"
      }
    ],
    "valid" : false
  }

  response:
  valid

  {
    "valid" : true
  }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides various tools for working with an
L<OpenAPI Specification v3.1 or v3.2 document|https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest#openapi-document> within
your application. The JSON Schema evaluator is fully specification-compliant; the OpenAPI evaluator
aims to be but some features are not yet available.

=for Pod::Coverage BUILDARGS FREEZE THAW

=for stopwords schema jsonSchemaDialect metaschema subschema perlish operationId openapi Mojolicious
querystring unencoded

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR ARGUMENTS

If construction of the object is not successful, for example the document has a syntax error, the
call to C<new()> will throw an exception, which will likely be a L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Result>
object containing details.

Unless otherwise noted, these are also available as read-only accessors.

Any additional constructor arguments that are not listed here will be passed along to the evaluator
constructor: see L<JSON::Schema::Modern/CONSTRUCTOR ARGUMENTS>.

=head2 openapi_uri

Optional.

The URI that identifies the OpenAPI document; an alias to C<< ->openapi_document->canonical_uri >>.
See L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Document::OpenAPI/canonical_uri>.
Ignored if L</openapi_document> is provided.

This URI will be used at runtime to resolve relative URIs used in
the OpenAPI document, such as for C<jsonSchemaDialect> or C<servers url> values and C<$ref>
locations, as well as used for locations in L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Result> objects (see below).

The value of C<$self> in the document (if present) is resolved against this value.
It is strongly recommended that this resulting URI is absolute.

=head2 openapi_schema

The data structure describing the OpenAPI document (as specified at
L<https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest>; an alias to C<< ->openapi_document->schema >>.
See L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Document::OpenAPI/schema>.
Ignored if L</openapi_document> is provided, otherwise required.

=head2 openapi_document

The L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Document::OpenAPI> document that holds the OpenAPI information to be
used for validation. If it is not provided to the constructor, then
L</openapi_schema> B<MUST> be provided, and L</evaluator> will also be used if provided.

=head2 evaluator

The L<JSON::Schema::Modern> object to use for all URI resolution and JSON Schema evaluation.
Optional (a default is constructed when omitted).

This must be prepared in advance if custom metaschemas are to be used, as the evaluator is what
holds the information about all available schemas (which are used by keywords such as
C<jsonSchemaDialect> and C<$ref>.

=head2 debug

Boolean; defaults to false (can also be set via C<$DEBUG>).

When set, useful diagnostic information is stored in the C<$options> hash used in public methods
described below.

=head2 with_defaults

When set, missing values from parameter and body schemas that have a corresponding C<default>
keyword will be returned in the L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Result> object under the C<defaults>
property, and are also populated into C<data>. See example in L</validate_request>.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 document_get

  my $parameter_data = $openapi->document_get('/paths/~1foo~1{foo_id}~1bar~1%7Bbar_id%7D/post/parameters/0');

Fetches the portion of the main OpenAPI document located at the provided JSON pointer.
Proxies to L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Document::OpenAPI/get>.
This is not recursive (does not follow C<$ref> chains) -- for that, use
C<< $openapi->recursive_get(Mojo::URL->new->fragment($json_pointer)) >>, see
L</recursive_get>.

=head2 validate_request

  $result = $openapi->validate_request(
    $request,
    # optional second argument can contain any combination of these keys+values:
    my $options = {
      path_template => '/foo/{foo_id}/bar/{bar_id}',
      operation_id => 'my_foo_request',
      path_captures => { foo_id => 'abc', bar_id => 2 },
      method => 'POST',
    },
  );

Validates an L<HTTP::Request>, L<Plack::Request>, L<Catalyst::Request>,
L<Dancer2::Core::Request> or L<Mojo::Message::Request>
object against the corresponding OpenAPI document, returning a
L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Result> object that will also include all the data that was deserialized
from the request object (see example below for structure).

Absolute URIs in the result object are constructed by resolving the openapi document path against
the L</openapi_uri> (which is derived from the document's C<$self> keyword as well as the URI
provided to the document constructor).

The second argument is an optional hashref that contains extra information about the request,
corresponding to the values expected by L</find_path_item> below. The method populates the hashref
with some information about the request:
save it and pass it to a later L</validate_response> call (that corresponds to a response for this request)
to improve performance.

All data deserialized from the request will be recorded in the returned
L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Result> object (some parts may be missing if there were errors);
see L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Result/data>.

They will appear in a nested hashref with this structure (which uses the same layout as the
C<instanceLocation>s in errors in the Result object):

  {
    request => {
      uri => {
        server => {
          <server variable name> => <value from the scheme, host or path portion of the URI>,
          ...,
        },
        path => {
          <path parameter name> => <deserialized data from part of the URI path>,
          ...,
        },
        query => {
          <query parameter name> => <deserialized data from part of the querystring portion of the URI>,
          ...,
          OR
          <deserialized data from the entire querystring portion of the URI>,
        },
      },
      header => {
        <header name> => <deserialized data from header(s)>,
        ...,
        Cookie => {
          <cookie parameter name> => <deserialized data from (a portion of) the Cookie header>,
          ...,
        },
      },
      body => {
        content => <deserialized data from body>,
      },
    },
  }

Missing parameters or message body will not appear in this structure;
you may wish to treat their value as C<undef>.

=head2 validate_response

  $result = $openapi->validate_response(
    $response,
    {
      request => $request,
    },
  );

Validates an L<HTTP::Response>, L<Plack::Response>, L<Catalyst::Response>,
L<Dancer2::Core::Response> or L<Mojo::Message::Response>
object against the corresponding OpenAPI document, returning a
L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Result> object.

Absolute URIs in the result object are constructed by resolving the openapi document path against
the L</openapi_uri> (which is derived from the document's C<$self> keyword as well as the URI
provided to the document constructor).

The second argument is an optional hashref that contains extra information about the request
corresponding to the response, as in L</validate_request> and L</find_path_item>.

C<request> in the hashref represents the original request object that
corresponds to this response, which can be used to find the appropriate section of the document if
other values (such as C<operationId>) are not known.

These options are supported in addition to those supported by L</find_path_item>:

=over 4

=item *

C<response>: the L<Mojo::Message::Response> object that was provided or converted from the provided response

=back

All data deserialized from the request will be recorded in the returned
L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Result> object (some parts may be missing if there were errors);
see L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Result/data>.

They will appear in a nested hashref with this structure (which uses the same layout as the
C<instanceLocation>s in errors in the Result object):

  {
    response => {
      header => {
        <header name> => <deserialized data from header(s)>,
        ...,
      },
      body => {
        content => <deserialized data from body>,
      },
    },
  }

Missing parameters or message body will not appear in this structure;
you may wish to treat their value as C<undef>.

=head2 find_path_item

=for Pod::Coverage find_path

  $result = $self->find_path_item($options);

Finds the appropriate L<path-item|https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest#path-item-object> entry
in the OpenAPI document corresponding to a request. Called
internally by both L</validate_request> and L</validate_response>.

The single argument is a hashref that contains information about the request. Various combinations
of values can be provided; possible values are:

=over 4

=item *

C<request>: the object representing the HTTP request. Supported types are: L<HTTP::Request>, L<Plack::Request>, L<Catalyst::Request>, L<Dancer2::Core::Request>, L<Mojo::Message::Request>. Converted to a L<Mojo::Message::Request> (the value in this hashref will be overwritten).

=item *

C<uri>: the URI of the HTTP request. Converted from any string-compatible type to a L<Mojo::URL>.

=item *

C<method>: the HTTP method used by the request (case-sensitive)

=item *

C<path_template>: a string representing the (possibly partial) path portion of the request URI, with placeholders in braces (e.g. C</pets/{petId}>); see L<https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest#paths-object>.

=item *

C<operation_id>: a string corresponding to the L<operationId|https://learn.openapis.org/specification/paths.html#the-endpoints-list> at a particular path-template and HTTP location under C</paths>. In the case of ambiguous matches (such as the possibility of more than one C<path_template> matching the request URI), providing this value will serve to unambiguously state which path-item and operation are intended, and is also more efficient as not all path-item entries need to be searched to find a match.

=item *

C<path_captures>: a hashref mapping placeholders in the path template to their literal values in the request URI (not percent-decoded; not recommended to be provided for use in path matching due to inconsistencies with url-escaping, and this capability may be removed in the future)

=back

All values are optional, and will be derived from each other as needed (albeit less
efficiently than if they were provided). All passed-in values MUST be consistent with each other and
the request or the return value from this method is false and appropriate errors will be included
in the C<$options> hash.

When successful, the options hash will be populated (or updated) with all the above keys,
and the return value is true.
When not successful, the options hash will be populated with key C<errors>, an arrayref containing
a L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Error> object, and the return value is false.

In addition, these values are also populated in the options hash (when available):

=for stopwords punycode

=over 4

=item *

C<uri_captures>: a hashref mapping placeholders in the entire uri template (server url plus path template) to their actual values in the request URI; for values coming from the host, these will be puny-decoded; for values coming from the path via a server url these will be url-unescaped, but path values coming from the path template are B<NOT> url-unescaped.

=item *

C<operation_uri>: a URI indicating the document location of the operation object for the request, after following any references (usually something under C</paths/>, but may be in another document). Use C<< $openapi->evaluator->get($uri) >> to fetch this content (see L<JSON::Schema::Modern/get>). Note that this is the same as:

    $openapi->document_get(Mojo::URL->new($openapi->openapi_uri)->fragment($path_to_operation);

(See the L<documentation for an operation|https://learn.openapis.org/specification/paths.html#the-endpoints-list>
or in
L<§4.10 of the specification|https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest#operation-object>.)

=item *

C<debug>: when C<$OpenAPI::Modern::DEBUG> or L</debug> is set on the OpenAPI::Modern object, additional diagnostic information is stored here in separate keys:

=over 4

=item *

C<uri_patterns>: an arrayref of patterns that were attempted to be matched against the URI, in match order

=back

=back

You can find the associated operation object in the OpenAPI document by using either C<operation_uri>,
or by calling C<< $openapi->openapi_document->operationId_path($operation_id) >>
(see L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Document::OpenAPI/operationId_path>) (note that the latter will
be changed in a subsequent release, in order to support operations existing in other documents).

=head2 recursive_get

Given a uri or uri-reference (resolved against the main OpenAPI document's C<canonical_uri>),
get the definition at that location, following any C<$ref>s along the
way. Include the expected definition type
(one of C<schema>, C<response>, C<parameter>, C<example>, C<request-body>, C<header>,
C<security-scheme>, C<link>, C<callbacks>, or C<path-item>)
for validation of the entire reference chain.

Returns the data in scalar context, or a tuple of the data and the canonical URI of the
referenced location in list context.

If the provided location is relative, the main OpenAPI document is used for the base URI.
If you have a local json pointer you want to resolve, you can turn it into a uri-reference by
prepending C<#> and url-encoding it, e.g. C<< Mojo::URL->new->fragment($jsonp) >>.

  my $param = $openapi->recursive_get('#/components/parameters/Content-Encoding', 'parameter');
  my $operation_schema = $openapi->recursive_get(Mojo::URL->new('https://example.com/api.json')
    ->fragment(jsonp(qw(/paths /foo/{foo_id} get requestBody content application/json schema)));

=head2 canonical_uri

An accessor that delegates to L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Document/canonical_uri>.

=head2 schema

An accessor that delegates to L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Document/schema>.

=head1 CACHING

=for stopwords preforking

Very large OpenAPI documents may take a noticeable time to be
loaded and parsed. You can reduce the impact to your preforking application by loading all necessary
documents at startup, and impact can be further reduced by saving objects to cache and then
reloading them (perhaps by using a timestamp or checksum to determine if a fresh reload is needed).

  sub get_openapi (...) {
    my $serialized_file = Mojo::File->new($serialized_filename);
    my $openapi_file = Mojo::File->new($openapi_filename);
    my $openapi;
    if ($serialized_file->stat->mtime < $openapi_file->stat->mtime)) {
      $openapi = OpenAPI::Modern->new(
        openapi_uri => '/api',
        openapi_schema => decode_json($openapi_file->slurp_raw), # your openapi document
      );
      $openapi->evaluator->add_schema(decode_json(...));  # any other needed schemas
      my $frozen = Sereal::Encoder->new({ freeze_callbacks => 1 })->encode($openapi);
      $serialized_file->spew_raw($frozen);
    }
    else {
      my $frozen = $serialized_file->slurp_raw;
      $openapi = Sereal::Decoder->new->decode($frozen);
    }

    # add custom format validations and encodings here
    $openapi->evaluator->add_format_validation(...);

    return $openapi;
  }

See also L<JSON::Schema::Modern/CACHING>.

=head1 BUNDLED SCHEMA DOCUMENTS

This distribution comes bundled with all the metaschema documents you need to build your
application, or build custom schemas on top of. These can be referenced via constants in
L<OpenAPI::Modern::Utilities> if you are building complex cross-referencing documents.
We always use the latest versions of the documents that are published for each minor specification
version; if you need earlier versions (but you should ask yourself why), you can find them at
L<https://spec.openapis.org/#openapi-specification-schemas>.

The default metaschema used by this tool does not permit the use of C<$schema> keywords
in subschemas (unless the value is equal to the default OAS dialect), but a more permissive
dialect is also available (or you can define your own), which you declare by providing the
L<C<jsonSchemaDialect>|https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest#openapi-object> property in your OpenAPI
Document.

The schemas are also available under the URIs C<< s/<date>/latest/ >> so you don't have to change your
code or configurations to keep pace with internal changes.

An even stricter schema and dialect are available, via the metaschema_uri
C<https://raw.githubusercontent.com/karenetheridge/OpenAPI-Modern/master/share/3.2/strict-schema.json>,
which treats the `format` keyword as an assertion, and also prevents any unknown keywords from being
used in JSON Schemas. This is useful to avoid
spelling mistakes from going unnoticed and resulting in false positive results.

The OpenAPI v3.0 schema document is also available, for use in validating v3.0.x OpenAPI
descriptions, but parsing of the description (e.g. for use in request and response validation) is
not supported. It can be used directly as a schema (e.g. by using its URI in a C<$schema> or C<$ref>
keyword) after calling L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Utilities/load_cached_document>.

=head1 ON THE USE OF JSON SCHEMAS

Embedded JSON Schemas, through the use of the C<schema> keyword, are fully draft2020-12-compliant,
as per the spec, and implemented with L<JSON::Schema::Modern>. Unless overridden with the use of the
L<jsonSchemaDialect|https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest#specifying-schema-dialects> keyword, their
metaschema is the "dialect" schema listed at L<https://spec.openapis.org/oas/#schema-iterations>, which allows for use of the
OpenAPI-specific keywords (C<discriminator>, C<xml>, C<externalDocs>, and C<example>), as defined in
L<the specification|https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest#schema-object>. Format validation is turned
B<on>, and the use of content* keywords is off (see
L<JSON::Schema::Modern/validate_content_schemas>).

As references (with the C<$ref> keyword) may reference any position within the entire OpenAPI
document, json pointers are relative to the B<root> of the document, not the root of the subschema
itself. References to other documents are also permitted, provided those documents have been loaded
into the evaluator in advance (see L<JSON::Schema::Modern/add_schema>).

When deserializing parameter values (whose decoding is not strictly defined with a media-type),
values are treated as strings by default. However, if the schema contains a C<type>, C<const> or
C<enum> keyword, the value will
(attempted to be) coerced into that type before being passed to the JSON Schema evaluator. C<allOf>,
C<anyOf>, C<oneOf>, C<not>, C<$ref> and C<$dynamicRef> keywords are also followed in an attempt to
infer the correct desired type, and C<$id> and C<$schema> are respected.
This process includes inspection of subschemas for object values or array items, for parameter
values that are deserialized into those types.
When no type constraint is present, the value will remain as a string; otherwise when multiple types
are permitted, deserialization is attempted in this order: C<object>, C<array>, C<null>, C<boolean>,
C<number>, C<string>.

=head1 LIMITATIONS

=head2 HTTP Support Libraries

All message parsing and manipulation is done using L<Mojolicious> objects (L<Mojo::Message::Request> and
L<Mojo::Message::Response>). If messages of other types are passed, conversion is done on a
best-effort basis, but since different implementations have different levels of adherence to the RFC
specs, some validation errors may occur e.g. if a certain required header is missing on the
original. For best results in validating real messages from the network, parse them directly into
Mojolicious messages (see L<Mojo::Message/parse>).

=head2 Use of Parameter Definitions

Parameter deserialization is performed with the assumption that the request URI has been correctly
percent-encoded. Failing to encode certain characters that are also used as delimiters for the
specific L<parameter style|https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest#style-values> being used, or
encoding characters that are not canonically required to be encoded according to
L<RFC3986 §2.1|https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986#section-2.1>, may result in the message not
being correctly deserialized nor parameter values correctly extracted.

Caution is advised when using non-default settings with parameters, as certain combinations of
characters in string data will not serialize well with certain delimiters.  The default settings
for C<path> and C<query> parameters (C<style: simple> and C<explode: false>, and C<style: form> and
C<explode: true>, respectively) are safe to use; for C<header> parameters, unencoded C<,> should be
avoided in arrays and objects, and for C<cookie> parameters, always use C<style: cookie> with
C<explode: true>. Since the allowed syntax of a C<Cookie> header is quite limited, see L<EXAMPLES>
below for an example of how to encode arbitrary characters or data structures into a cookie.

=head2 Querystring parameters

The use of media-type encoding in C<in: querystring> parameters (see
L<https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest#parameter-locations>)
requires the raw string value of the query portion to be preserved in the request URL; directly
accessing the URL's query parameters in your application can cause can cause request data to become
normalized according to C<application/x-www-form-urlencoded> rules and some data may be lost,
resulting in the data being unparsable for OpenAPI validation. To avoid this, do not
use these constructs in your Mojolicious application in those situations (instead use the more
specific C<< $c->req->body_params >> or C<< $c->stash >> to access non-query parameters):

=over 4

=item *

C<param>, C<every_param>, C<params>, C<query_params> on C<< $c->req >>

=item *

C<param>, C<every_param>, C<params> on C<$c>

=back

=head2 Unimplemented sections of the specification

=over 4

=item *

C<multipart/*> messages

=item *

C<application/x-www-form-urlencoded> messages and the C<encoding> object within media-type objects

=item *

The use of C<$ref> within a path-item object is only allowed when not adjacent to any other path-item properties (C<parameters>, C<servers>, request methods)

=item *

The C<Authorization> header is not verified against any security schemes specified in the OpenAPI description. This may in future be implemented via plugins for each security scheme implementation.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Transporting arbitrary data in a cookie

Include C<< validate_content_schemas => 1 >> in the constructor arguments for C<OpenAPI::Modern>.

Use this parameter definition for the cookie:

  parameters:
    - in: cookie
      name: token
      content:
        text/plain:
          schema:
            contentEncoding: base64
            contentMediaType: application/json
            contentSchema:
              type: object
              required: [ a, b ]
              additionalProperties:
                type: integer

In the client, encode your data with JSON and then base64, and use that as the Cookie value:

  my $encoded_token = MIME::Base64::encode_base64url(encode_json({ a => 1, b => 2 }));
  $request->headers->append(cookie => $encoded_token);

This will generate a header like: C<< Cookie: token=eyJhIjoxLCJiIjoyfQ >>

To decode the cookie on the server side:

  my $result = $openapi->validate_request($request);
  my $token = $result->data->{request}{header}{Cookie}{token};

Which will be the value: C<< { a => 1, b => 2 } >>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::OpenAPI::Modern>

=item *

L<Test::Mojo::Role::OpenAPI::Modern>

=item *

L<JSON::Schema::Modern::Document::OpenAPI>

=item *

L<JSON::Schema::Modern>

=item *

L<https://json-schema.org>

=item *

L<https://www.openapis.org>

=item *

L<https://learn.openapis.org>

=item *

L<https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0>

=item *

L<https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.1>

=item *

L<https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.2>

=item *

L<https://spec.openapis.org/oas>

=back

=head1 GIVING THANKS

=for stopwords MetaCPAN GitHub

If you found this module to be useful, please show your appreciation by
adding a +1 in L<MetaCPAN|https://metacpan.org/dist/OpenAPI-Modern>
and a star in L<GitHub|https://github.com/karenetheridge/OpenAPI-Modern>.

=head1 SUPPORT

Bugs may be submitted through L<https://github.com/karenetheridge/OpenAPI-Modern/issues>.

I am also usually active on irc, as 'ether' at C<irc.perl.org> and C<irc.libera.chat>.

=for stopwords OpenAPI

You can also find me on the L<JSON Schema Slack server|https://json-schema.slack.com> and L<OpenAPI
Slack server|https://open-api.slack.com>, which are also great resources for finding help.

=head1 AUTHOR

Karen Etheridge <ether@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

This software is copyright (c) 2021 by Karen Etheridge.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

Some schema files have their own licence, in share/oas/LICENSE.

=cut
